Q1: This approach is a good design as the design is abstract, that is it can be used without the users knowing how it works. This allows users to easily utilise the interface and can allow programmers to easily build upon it. Users only interact with what is important i.e. the booking type, rooms available, hotels etc. and do not worry about the less important programming details such as how do functions check for errors. The design also uses encapsulation as a way for the booking system and hotel interfaces to interact with each other. The booking system will use the hotel public functions rather than interact with the implementation. This means that the system is modular with independent classes which do not depend on the implementation but the functionality of each other. This means that bug searching is quick since there will be tests for each module and updating the program is easy as long as the functionality does not change since each module only cares about the functionality rather than the implementation.
Q2: Black box means that something is abstract, that is that the user does not need to know how that thing works but the functionality works. The booking system tests do not check each private function and variable but only test using the public functions. For instance the testMakeBooking function is a black box test since it only uses public functions and tests that the output of these functions is correct. The test does not check any of the booking system's properties e.g. test that controller.hotel is the correct hotel.
Q3: The function takes in an arrival, departure and then boolean for whether the user wants an standard, ensuite or penthouse room. The function will check whether a room of the desired type exists and then try to book it. If is successful the function returns true else it will return false. The side effects the function has is that a booking object is created.
Q4: Code B is better since code A will result in adding null to the list. This means that the length of the list is inaccurate if the add function adds null to the list.
Q5: The code repeats the same pattern of code several times. It also has useless if statements i.e. if (statement == true) return true; else return false. The function could return statement.
Q6: code smells - repeated code, implemenation of interface is almost identical, TODO comments
Q7: I changed the room interface into an abstract class and had the penthouse standard and ensuite rooms extend this room. This changes other rooms' relationships from implementations to is-a relationships and removes the repeated code in the add booking function. This removes the repeated code and solves the issue that the implementations do not vary enough with each other to warrant an interface.
Reflection:
I found the lab quite challenging as I needed to think about what makes good code and what potential bugs could arise from certain implemenations. I also needed to consider how to make a system easily accessible and easy to edit without having to change a lot of functions. It was a different way of thinking which I did enjoy but was a little difficult.
